---
title: "Page configuration options in the theme"
author: "Sanmay Joshi"
description: "Get to know all the page-level configuration relevant to Vibrant Shadows Hugo theme."
tags: ["configuration", "customize", "settings"]
date: "2020-10-03"
---
'Page paremeters' relate to the particular content file in whose front-matter they are defined.

<!--more-->

## Page Parameters

These options can be set from a page [front-matter](https://gohugo.io/content-management/front-matter#readout) or via [archetypes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/archetypes/#readout) (i.e. when you create a new content file via `hugo new` command).

1.  **Title** *(Type: String | Accepts value: Text | Required)*
    
    It is the title of the current page/post you are writing.
    
    Example:
    ```yaml
    title: "A post that takes you into space"
    ```
2.  **Description** *(Type: String | Accepts value: Text | Required)*
    
    It is the description of the current page/post. Recommended character length: 50 to 160
    
    Example:
    ```yaml
    description: "A short yet descriptive text that relates to this post."
    ```
3.  **Date** *(Type: String | Accepts value: Date | Required)*
    
    It is the date on which current page/post is published.
    
    Example:
    ```yaml
    date: "2021-04-26" # YYYY-MM-DD
    ```
4.  **Last Modified** *(Type: String | Accepts value: Date | Required)*
    
    It is the date on which current post was last modified.
    
    Example:
    ```yaml
    lastmod: "2021-04-29"
    ```
5.  **Tags/Categories/Custom-Taxonomy** *(Type: Array/String | Accepts value: Text | Recommended)*
    
    You can manage and organise you posts based on tags, categories or any other custom taxonomy.
    
    Example:
    ```yaml
    tags: ["great post", "awesome"] # multiple elements
    categories: "category" # single element
    ```
6.  **Image** *(Type: String | Accepts value: Path to Image | Recommended)*
    
    You can specify path to an image dedicated to current post. This image is used to optimize the display of content when shared on social media.
    
    Example:
    ```yaml
    image: "/images/post-1.png"
    ```
7.  **Author** *(Type: String | Accepts value: Text | Recommended)*
    
    It is the name of the author of the current post.
    
    Example:
    ```yaml
    author: "Great Author"
    ```
8.  **Author Twitter Handle** *(Type: String | Accepts value: Text | Recommended)*
    
    It is the Twitter handle of the author of the current post, without '@'. This option is theme specific.
    
    Example:
    ```yaml
    author_twitter: "Gr8Authr" # this is just an example
    ```
9.  **Draft** *(Type: Boolean | Accepts value: true/false | Optional)*
    
    If it is set to `true`, the content will not be rendered unless the `--buildDrafts` flag is passed to the `hugo` command.
    
    Example:
    ```yaml
    draft: true
    ```
10. **Table of Contents** *(Type: boolean/String | Accepts value: true/false | Optional)*
    
    If set to `false`, *Table of Content* for current post will not be rendered.
    
    Example:
    ```yaml
    toc: false
    ```
11. **Aliases** *(Type: Array | Accepts value: Relative URL | Optional)*
    
    It stores other URLs (in relative form) - usually older URLs for current post - which you would like to redirect to current post.
    
    Example:
    ```yaml
    aliases: ["/posts/my-original-url/", "/2010/01/01/even-earlier-url.html"]
    ```
12. **URL** *(Type: String | Accepts value: Relative URL | Optional)*
    
    If you want to specify a custom URL for this post other than the one automatically generated by hugo based on content directory structure, you can specify it in this parameter.
    
    Example:
    ```yaml
    url: "/custom/url/"
    ```
    
